95% of engineers use Codex. 100% of our
PRs are reviewed by Codex for engineers.
I don't know what job has changed more
in the past couple years. Engineers are
becoming tech leads. They're managing
fleets and fleets of agents. It
literally feels like we're wizards
casting all these spells. And these
spells are kind of like going out and
doing things for you. What do you think
people aren't pricing in yet? The second
or third order effects of the oneperson
billion dollar startup to enable a one
person billion dollar startup. There
might be a hundred other small startups
building bespoke software. And so I
think we might actually enter into a
golden age of B2B SAS.
>> I've been hearing more and more there's
this stress people feel when their
agents aren't working. There's a team
that's actually doing an experiment
right now within OpenAI where they are
maintaining a 100% codeex written
codebase. They run into the exact
problems that you're describing. And so
usually you're like all right I'll roll
up my sleeves and figure it out. Team
doesn't have that escape hatch.
>> You've shared that listening to
customers not always the right strategy
in AI. The field and the models
themselves are just changing so so
quickly. They tend to like disrupt
themselves. The models will eat your
scaffolding for breakfast. What's your
advice to folks that are like, "Okay, I
don't want to miss the boat." Make sure
you're building for where the models are
going and not where they are today.
There's a quote from Kevin Whale, our VP
of science here. He likes saying, "This
is the worst the models will ever be."
Today, my guest is Sherwin Woo, head of
engineering for OpenAI's API and
developer platform. Considering that
essentially every AI startup integrates
with OpenAI's APIs, Sherwin has an
incredibly unique and broad view into
what is going on and where things are
heading. Let's get into it after a short
word from our wonderful sponsors.
Today's episode is brought to you by DX,
the developer intelligence platform
designed by leading researchers. To
thrive in the AI era, organizations need
to adapt quickly. But many organization
leaders struggle to answer pressing
questions like which tools are working?
How are they being used? What's actually
driving value? DX provides the data and
insights that leaders need to navigate
this shift. With DX, companies like
Dropbox, Booking.com, Adion, and
Intercom get a deep understanding of how
AI is providing value to their
developers and what impact AI is having
on engineering productivity. To learn
more, visit DX's website at
getdx.com/lenny.
That's getdx.com/lenny.
Applications break in all kinds of ways.
Crashes, slowdowns, regressions, and the
stuff that you only see once real users
show up. Sentry catches it all. See what
happened where, and why, down to the
commit that introduced the error, the
developer who shipped it, and the exact
line of code all in one connected view.
I've definitely tried the five tabs and
Slack thread approach to debugging. This
is better. Sentry shows you how the
request moved, what ran, what slowed
down, and what users saw. Seir, Sentry's
AI debugging agent, takes it from there.
It uses all of that Sentry context to
tell you the root cause, suggest a fix,
and even opens a PR for you. It also
reviews your PR and flags any breaking
changes with fixes ready to go. Try
Sentry and SER for free at
centry.io/lenny
and use code Lenny for $100 in Sentry
credits. That's s nt r y.io/lenny.
Sherwin, thank you so much for being
here and welcome to the podcast. Thank
you. Thank you for having me.
>> I want to start with what's feeling like
a barometer of progress in AI,
especially in engineering. What
percentage of your code, if you even
write code anymore, and your team's code
is written by AI at this point?
>> I do write code occasionally now still.
Uh and I actually say for managers like
myself, it's way easier to use these AI
tools uh than to manually code at this
point. And so I know for myself and some
of the other emuring managers at OpenAI,
uh all of our code is written by by
codeex uh at this point. But more
broadly, there's just been this there's
just so much energy. There's like a
tangible energy internally around just
how far these tools have gotten, how
good Codeex as a tool has gotten for us.
And uh it's it's a little hard for us to
exactly measure how much of the code is
is written because the vast majority of
it I'd say like close to 100% is is
usually generated by AI first. What we
do track though is is you know at this
point the vast majority of engineers use
codeex on a daily basis. So 95%
of engineers um use codeex. Um 100% of
our PRs are reviewed by codeex daily as
well. So basically any code that goes
into production that's merged in Kodas
kind of has its eyes on and uh suggests
improvements suggests changes uh uh in
the PRs. And so uh that's kind of what
we're seeing internally. But by and
large the most exciting is just the
energy that that there that there is. Um
another observation that we've had is uh
engineers who tend to use codecs more uh
open way more PRs. So uh they're
actually opening 70% more PRs uh and uh
than than the engineers who aren't using
codecs as much. Uh and the gap is
widening. So I feel like you know the
people who are opening more PRs um are
starting to you know learn how to use
the tool more and more get more
efficient and that 70% gap keeps uh uh
growing over time and so might have
actually increased since I last looked
at the at the number.
>> Okay. So just to make sure we hear what
you're saying you're saying all of the
code of these 95%
uh engineers at at OpenAI is written by
AI. It's written and then they review
it.
>> Yep. Yep.
>> It's It's like crazy that that's almost
like not crazy anymore that we're just
like getting used to this. I think
there's still some getting used to to be
clear. Uh there's also I think some you
know uh engineers who I think trust uh
codeex a little bit less but um
basically every day I talk to someone
who who uh is blown away by something
that I can do and and kind of like the
their bar of of trust kind of uh or like
how much they trust the model to do on
its own goes up over and over uh over
time. And there's a quote from Kevin
Whale our our um VP of of science here
and he likes saying this is the worst
the models will ever be. And so this is
the worst that the models ever be for
software engineering as well. And so
over time you just see people trusting
it more and more and then we'll see the
models get better and better as well.
>> Yeah. Kevin Wheel, former podcast guest,
uh he he said exactly that line on this
podcast and a few times.
>> Yeah. Uh Peter the Claudebot/moldbotclaw
is what it's called now. uh developer uh
recently shared that he uses codecs for
his work and he feels like anytime it
does things he just trusts that it has
done the right job and he's just like
almost certain he could just commit it
to master and it'll be great.
>> Yeah. Yeah. He's a great um user of
codeex. I know he's in close touch with
the team gives us great feedback. Um not
surprised that he uses it. I mean uh
sorry it's called open claw.
>> Open claw. Yeah.
>> Open claw is a great is a great product.
And then I saw that this I mean this is
very recent but this morning I think
mold's book uh kind of like uh uh was
shared as well and seeing all the uh AI
agents talk to each other is pretty uh
pretty surreal. It's basically her is
happening in real life is what I'm
hearing.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So just like coming back to this crazy
moment we are living through four
engineers in particular. We've gone from
you write every line of code to now AI
is writing all of your code. I don't
know what job has changed more in the
past couple years like job that we
didn't expect to change this much where
just like the job of an engineer is so
different in the entire lifespan of an
engineer like in the past couple years
it's now shifted to I don't write any
more code how do you imagine the role of
an engineer and the job of a software
engineer looks in the next couple years
just like what is that job yeah it's I
mean it's honestly being really cool to
see um uh and it's part of where the
excitement is because uh like the job is
likely going to change pretty
significantly over the next one to two
years. It kind of feels like we're still
figuring things out though and so
there's like this excitement I know
especially from some of the software
engineers of like we're in this rare
moment you know maybe over the next 12
to 24 months where we'll kind of get to
figure things out ourselves and set our
standards for ourselves in terms of
where I see uh I see this moving. So I
think there's a common thing that
everyone's saying which is uh you know
people are generally like IC engineers
are becoming tech leads. They're
basically like managers now. They're
managing fleets and fleets of agents. Um
I know many of the engineers on my team
basically have like 10 to 20 uh threads
kind of being pulled on at the same
time. Obviously not active running
codeex uh jobs but uh just a lot of
parallel threads. They're checking in on
what they're doing. They're steering the
agents and codeex and and and and giving
it feedback. And so their job has kind
of really changed from just writing the
code itself into being almost like a
manager. In terms of where I think this
will go one to two years from now. So
one uh kind of metaphor that that I kind
of always come back to here is actually
from this uh is from this uh programming
textbook uh that I read back in college
called sikp. I don't know if you've
heard of it. Uh structure and uh
interpretation of computer programs. So
si sicp.
um at at MIT it was really popular and
and it was actually used as the uh uh
introductory it was the textbook for the
intro programming course for a very long
time um and it kind of has this cult
following um it teaches you programming
uh it teaches you a dialect of list
called scheme uh and so it like
introduces you to like functional
programming it's like very mindopening
in that way but the thing that was
memorable for me about that book so I I
I kind of read it in college um the very
beginning of it kind of describes
programming as a discipline and draws
this metaphor to basically like sorcery.
Like it says like software engineers are
like wizards and you're like like
programming languages are like
incantations and you're like you know
you're you're saying you're issuing
these spells and these spells are kind
of like going out and doing things for
you and and the challenge is like what
incantation do you have to say to make
the the program do what you want. And
this book was written in 1980 so this is
this is a while ago and I think that
metaphor is actually like kind of
persisted over time. And I think it's
actually playing out as we move into
this uh new era of vibe coding or just
like what software engineering will look
like because programming languages were
basically these incantations. They've
changed over time and the challenge has
always and and the trend has been that
these it's been easier and easier to
kind of get them the the the computer to
do what you want uh via programming. And
I think the current wave of AI is is
probably the next stage of that
evolution. it is now literally
incantations because you can tell you
know your uh you can tell codex you can
tell cursor uh exactly what you want to
do and then it'll all go do it for you.
Uh, and I particularly like the wizard
and like the the the sorcery analogy
because uh I think our current state is
is starting to move towards kind of like
the the sorcerers apprentice uh you know
from Fantasia uh where Mickey Mouse is
like you know he finds the sorcerer hat
and he tries to do all these things and
I actually think it's a really apt
analogy because one uh it's just it's
really powerful now these incantations
you can do can is is extremely high
leverage but you kind of have to know
what you're doing right like in
Sorcerers Apprentice the whole plot is
like Mickey goes wild the the brooms
like go crazy and everything's flooding.
I think he literally sets the like sets
the uh the brooms off on a task and then
goes asleep. Uh and and so, you know,
it's like vi coding at it at its at its
greatest and then eventually the the old
sorcerer comes back and like cleans
everything up. And um you know when I
see engineers kind of like doing these
these these these 20 different uh codeex
threads at a time there there is some
skill and there's some seniority and
like you know uh um a lot of thought
that needs to go into this because you
want to make sure that the the the
models aren't going off the rails. Uh
you definitely don't want to just like
completely uh go away and and you know
like ignore ignore the thing. But it's
also extremely high leverage like you
know a a very senior engineer who's
who's really prol uh proficient with
these tools uh can now just do way more
things via what they're doing. And and I
think this is also what makes it fun.
Like it literally feels like we're
wizards now. You know, it feels like
we're closer to to to to having uh uh to
to making making it feel like this like
magical experience where we're, you
know, casting all these spells and
having software do all these things for
you.
>> I was thinking of the sorcerers
apprentice exactly as the metaphor as
you were describing that. So I'm glad
you went there. Uh a previous podcast
guest described it as you have a genie
that you can that grants you wishes and
it's a useful frame because you have to
be very clear about the wish you want
like if you want to be big like how big
it could be.
>> Yeah. Or it might be like the
monkeykey's paw type thing where you
know it's like you got what you want but
what are the side effects?
>> Um yeah. Yeah. I think that and the
analogy is great and um yeah the crazy
thing for me is just the staying power
of that book. Sik be like it's called
the wizard book. you know, people call
it the wizard book because that is the
metaphor that they kind of weave
throughout the the book. And um we're
we've basically reached that point now,
which is which is which is really cool.
There's two kind of threads I want to
follow here. One is I've been hearing
more and more there's this like stress
that people feel when their agents
aren't working. You fire off all these,
you know, codeex agents and then you
have to keep stay on top of them. Oh
one's not working. I'm wasting
time. Uh do you do you feel that? Do you
feel that across your team at all?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it happens all the
time. And I actually think like this is
where the interesting part of all of
this lies right now because these models
aren't perfect. These tools aren't
perfect and we're still trying to figure
out how to best interact with these uh
with with with codecs or with these AI
agents to to get work done. We see this
come up all the time. There's a
particularly interesting team that we
have internally. So there's a team that
that's actually doing an experiment
right now uh within OpenAI where they
are basically maintaining a 100% codeex
written codebase. Uh so you know like
you know uh uh some you know you'll have
the AI write code but you'll obviously
end up like rewriting a lot of it and
and you might need to like double check
and change things but this team is just
fully codeex pill and just like leaning
in entirely. Uh and they run into the
exact problems that you're describing
which is like you know their challenge
is you know uh you know I want to get
this thing this feature built but I
can't get the agent to do it. And so
usually there's an escape hatch where
you know then you're like all right I'll
roll up my sleeves and like figure it
out and then instead of using codeex I
might use like tab complete and and
cursor and things like that but this
team uh uh for the experiment this team
doesn't have that escape hatch. Uh and
so then the challenge like how do I get
the the the agent to to to do this? And
um I actually think we're going to be
publishing a blog post from some of our
learnings here. Um but a lot of
fascinating like paradigms and best
practices are falling out of this. Um,
one interesting thing that we've
noticed, I I don't know if this is what
you you kind of feel, but we definitely
feel it here, is a lot of the time, uh,
when the coding agent is not doing what
you want, it's usually a problem with
context and just like information that
you've given it. It's just you've either
underspecified or there's just not
enough information around how to do
something available to the agent,
available to codeex. Uh and so uh when
when you have to solve it through
through that uh the challenge is then to
to to add documentation and actually
work around this this limitation and
basically encode more tribal knowledge
that's in your head somehow into the
codebase either via you know code
comments itself or code structure itself
or via text files like you know MD files
skills any type of additional resources
within the repository so that the model
can um uh can better do its task.
There's a whole bunch of other learnings
from this uh this group which I think is
fascinating uh to to explore. But yeah,
kind of giving removing that escape
hatch of of no longer using AI has
allowed them to start piecing together a
lot of the problems that we'll have to
solve if we really want to lean into
agents.
>> Another uh issue people run into, you
talked about how people are shipping PRs
like crazy, a lot more PRs if they're
working with AI. Uh obviously code
review is becoming a bigger challenge.
Is there anything you've figured out in
your team to help speed that up to make
that scale as and not just create this
terrible job for people where they're
just sitting there reviewing PRs all
day?
>> Yeah, I mean one thing is Codex reviews
100% of all of our PRs at this point.
And so uh I actually think so one one
really interesting thing that's happened
is the things that tend to we hand we
tend to hand to the models immediately
tend to be the things that annoy us or
like are the most boring parts of uh
software engineering. It's also why it's
more fun now because we get to do more,
you know, more of the fun things. Um,
for me, um, speaking more for myself, I
really hated code reviews. It was like
one of the worst things for me. And then
I remember in my first job, uh, out of
college, uh, it was at it was at Quora.
Um, I owned I was working on the
newsfeed and so I owned the code for the
newsfeed. And so I was a reviewer for
Newsfeed and uh it was just like the
central piece of code that everyone
would touch. And so I would just every
morning I'd log in and be like like 20
to 30 code reviews. I just like oh my
goodness I got to like you know get
through all these. Um I would
procrastinate and then it grows to like
50. And so there's like a a lot of code
reviews. Codeex is really good at
reviewing code. Uh so actually one thing
that we've noticed that 52 in particular
has gotten extremely strongly adept at
is reviewing code and especially when
you kind of steer it in the right
direction. And so uh for code reviews
yeah we create a lot of PRs but Codex
reviews all of them and it makes you
know code reviews go from a you know I
don't know 10 15 minute task to
sometimes even just like a two to three
minute task because you have a uh a
bunch of suggestions uh already already
baked in. Uh a lot of the times people
will uh especially for small PRs like
you you actually don't even need people
to review. We kind of trust codeex in
this way. Um the original author kind of
looks at Codex. It is you know the
benefit of code review is to have a
second pair of eyes to make sure that
you're not doing anything dumb. Codex is
a pretty smart second pair of eyes at
this point and so that's something that
that we've heavily leaned into. Um the
general CI process and like the post uh
kind of push and like deployment process
has also been heavily automated via
codeex internally at this point. If you
talk to a lot of engineers the thing
that annoys them the most is after
you've written your beautiful code like
how do you get it into production? You
know you got to you got to run through
all these tests you got to like you know
lint errors you code review. Um there's
a lot of automated stuff you can do with
codecs and so we've actually built some
tools internally that that help automate
that process, automate the lint, you
know, if there's like a lint error, it's
a very easy codeex fix. Uh and then just
it could just patch it and then kind of
restart the CI process. Um so all of
that is we're trying to collapse as as
into as as little work for an engineer
as possible which and and the byproduct
of which is uh um uh they can they can
now merge and push out a lot more peers.
Codec's writing the code, Codex
reviewing its own code. I'm curious if
you are open to using other models to
review your models work. Is that is that
a path or is it just it's good enough,
we don't need anything else?
>> So, I will say there's there's
definitely a circular thing here and
like going back to sources apprentice
like you want to make sure you're not
letting the brooms go crazy here. Um,
and so, you know, we're very thoughtful,
I'd say, around which PRs kind of are
completely just codeex uh reviewed. Most
people still obviously take a look at
their PRs. Uh, and so it's not like it's
going to zero. It's more like going from
you know 100% attention to like 30%
attention which which just helps things
push through. Uh in terms of like
multiple models uh so we we obviously
test a lot of models internally and so
we have a lot of those. Um we use
external models less. Um it's we we
think it's important to kind of dog food
our own models and kind of like get
feedback there. But uh you can also you
know there are a lot of like internal
variants of models that you can use to
give you a different perspective um here
as well and and we found that to to work
quite well.
>> Okay. So just to just to make sure we
get like a barometer of today's world at
OpenAI in terms of AI and code uh just
so I understand and then I want to move
on to a different topic. Uh 100% of code
across OpenAI is written by codeex at
this point. Is that the way to frame it?
I wouldn't make the statement that 100%
of code running in production today was
is written by AI. Uh and and it's kind
of hard to to to do attribution there.
But the like almost every engineer
heavily uses codecs in all of their
tasks at this point. And so I you know
if I were to guesstimate like the vast
majority of code at this point is it was
probably authored by incredible. Okay.
So there's a lot of talk and we've been
talking about kind of the IC role the
work of an IC engineer. There's less
talk about the changing role of a
manager especially an engineering
manager. How has your life as a manager
changed with the rise of AI and just
what do you where do you think managers
what's the role of a manager in the
future?
>> It's definitely changed less than an
engineer. Uh there's no you know codeex
for managers just uh just yet. However,
I use codeex quite a bit for for some of
the um uh some of some of the like kind
of more managery tasks that I do. I'd
say a couple things are are changing.
There like some trends. So I don't think
it's changed that much yet. Um, but I
see trends and I think if you play it
out, you can kind of see where where a
lot of this is going. One thing that
that's becoming increasingly clear is
codeex really empowers like top
performers to to get a lot like to be a
lot more productive. And so it really
like and I think this is maybe true for
AI more broadly like across society
which is like the people who really lean
in or like the people who have high
agency or like will get get good at
these tools will kind of supercharge
themselves. Uh and so I'm kind of
noticing this now as well, which is like
the top performers kind of end up uh uh
uh being a lot more a lot more
productive. Uh and so you see a broader
spread uh in in team productivity in
this way. One so one thing that I've
always done as as a management
philosophy is to spend uh actually the
majority of my time with top performers
just like make sure they're unblocked,
make sure they're happy, make sure you
know they're they feel productive and
they feel heard. I think this is even
more true uh in an AI world where you
know your top firmers are going to just
like really be shooting ahead uh using
these tools. I think I think one example
is is that the team that's you know
maintaining a 100% codec generated
codebase like just letting them kind of
rip and and and see what's happening
there is something that's that's paid
dividends. So I think that that's kind
of one one trend that I'm seeing where
where where um spending even more time
with top performers for managers I think
is is likely going to um uh continue.
The other thing is I I so this is more
uh an observation but my sense is with a
lot of these AI tools available to
managers. So le less like writing code
but just things like chat GBT with
organizational knowledge like being able
to do research and understanding
organizational context a lot better.
Another good example is uh um we're
doing performance reviews right now and
it's actually really easy to use chat
GBT with internal knowledge hooked up to
GitHub and like our notion docs and
Google docs to give it get a really good
sense of what this person has done over
the last 12 12 uh months uh and writing
a little you know deep research report
for it. My sense is I think managers
will be able to manage much larger teams
in this world kind of like how you know
like software engineers are managing 20
to 30 codeexes. Um my sense that these
tools will allow managers people
managers to be higher leverage um and uh
it will allow them to to to manage you
know teams of way more than than the
current best practice of I think it's
like six to eight right for software
engineering. You kind of see this
applied to you know like uh the non uh
engineering domains like support or uh
operations where it's like you know
previously um uh where previously like
the size of support team might be
limited but like as you can pass off
more things to agents you can actually
do more work and also manage more people
this way. I think the same thing might
happen for um people management as well,
especially in tech companies. Um and
we're already seeing this. There's some
teams uh where there are EM managing you
know quite a few people and they're
doing it pretty adeptly because of some
of these tools where they can get higher
leverage and understand what their
team's doing, understand organizational
context a little bit better uh and
operate in that way. I love this advice
that the way you described it is you've
always leaned into top performers and
spent more time with them, unblock them,
make sure they're happy. The way Mark
Andre and he was just on the podcast,
the way he phrased it is AI makes good
people better and it makes great people
exceptional.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And what you're saying here is just just
doing this more and more is probably the
right move. Spending more time with the
best people on your team to unblock
them, make sure they have everything
they need.
>> Yeah. A very good example right now is
uh there are I would say like a a group
of engineers internally who are really
codeex and are thinking through what the
best practices are for interacting with
this model and that is just an extremely
high lever thing for them to do and so
just like as a manager I'm just like
yeah go explore this you know uh
whatever best practices come out of this
you know we we have to share with the
org we'll we'll you know uh we'll we'll
uh we do all these knowledge sharing
sessions we'll we'll like share
documents and like best practices
everywhere So things like that just uh
you know elevate everyone and uh and I I
view that as like you know another
example of this trend um uh that um that
we're seeing where the top performers
really get exceptional.
>> People just like have a sense this is
big. AI is changing so much. The world
is changing. Uh it's going to be a huge
deal. What do you think people aren't
pricing in yet into what will change
into where things are heading? Just like
what's an example of something you think
are like okay we're not realizing this
yet. So, one of my favorite kind of uh
uh like phrases or like things that have
come out of this whole AI wave is is the
idea of the one person billion dollar
startup. I think I actually think Sam
may have ke or like uh Sam Sam may have
been the first one to say it, but it's
fascinating to think about, right? It's
like yeah, if you know if people are so
high leverage, at some point there will
likely be um a oneperson billion dollar
startup. Um, and while I think that's
really really cool, I think people
aren't really pricing in the second or
third order effects of this. And and
really what you know because because
what the one person billion dollar
startup implies is that there's you
know, one person can just have so much
more agency and so much more leverage
using one of these tools um that it is
just super easy for them to get
everything done that they need to for
for their business to, you know,
ultimately create something that's a
billion dollars. But I think there are a
couple other implications of this. One
of them is uh uh if it's easy for a
person to create a one person bill or if
it's possible for a person to create a
one person billion dollar startup, it
also means it's way easier for people to
just create startups in general. Like I
actually think this will like one second
order effect to this is I think there's
going to be a huge like startup boom and
like small like SMB style boom um where
anyone can build software for anything,
right? like uh uh one uh you're kind of
starting see starting to see this play
out in the AI startup scene where
software's became a lot more vertical
oriented where like these verticals uh
like creating some AI tool for some
vertical tends to work quite well
because you know you really lean into uh
that particular domain you like really
understand the use case for it and so if
you play out AI there's no reason why
you can't have like 100x more of these
these startups uh and So I think I think
one world that we might end up seeing
happen is in order to enable a one
person billion dollar startup there
might be like a hundred other small
startups building bespoke software that
works extremely well to support uh other
types of you know small small oneperson
you know billion dollar startups and so
I think we might actually end uh enter
into a golden age of like B2B SAS uh and
just like software and startups in
general and so I think I think that's
that's a really interesting trend to to
kind of see because as it's as it's as
it gets easier and easier to build
software, um as it's easier and easier
to uh you know uh uh run a company um
you might actually just end up seeing
way more of these these these startups.
So the way I I' I've been thinking about
is like yeah there might be one uh one
person billion dollar startup but there
might be like a hundred you know uh
hund00 million startups there might be
tens of thousands of $10 million
startups and as an individual it's
actually pretty great to have a $10
million business like that's like enough
for you're set for life at that point
and so you know we might really see see
an explosion in that way and and I feel
like people aren't aren't really you
know pressing that in. Um there's
another kind of like third order effect
to this you know and again all of these
like as you get to the further and
further out predictions I think uh are
there's a lot of uncertainty I think if
we end up moving to this world where you
end up with these like kind of micro
companies building software that works
for one or two people uh who own the
company and and and are working there um
I think the startup ecosystem will
change I think the VC ecosystem will
change you know might we might end up in
uh in a world where there's just like a
handful of big players that are offering
platforms and supporting all of these
startups. But, you know, the types of
venture scale return startups that can
really 100 or thousandx your your
investment might actually end up
shrinking if you end up having a bunch
of these, you know, smaller 10 to$50
million uh companies. Uh, which are not
great for venture solid returns, but are
great for the individuals, the high
agency individuals who are now, you
know, really leaning into AI to to to
build these businesses for themselves.
>> I love how many uh order like uh order
effects we've been through. I want to
hear the fourth order effect now.
Sherwin, I'm just joking. I I can't It's
too fourth order is too too is too
gigabrain for me. I can't I can't think
that far ahead.
>> It's like inception where just
everything gets slower every time you go
deeper into something every layer. Uh,
okay. So, the billion-dollar startup
I've been I think about this a lot
because I I'm not going to be a billion
dollar startup because what I'm doing is
not venture scale in any way and not
super high leverage, but just seeing how
many support tickets I get from just
like the most ridiculous things. It's
hard for me to imagine one person like
I'm bearish on this billion dollar
startup. I just want to share this
thought uh simply because of the support
costs even if AI is helping you at a
billion dollars just like unless your
ACVs are you know very high and you have
very few customers it's just dealing
with support and people are like you
know like they can solve their own
problems but they're like I'll email
support ask about this thing just
dealing with that is hard to scale is in
my experience so unless you have in my
opinion unless you have a bunch of
contractors which I don't know does that
count as a single person company I feel
like it's very difficult to scale a
billion dollar startup and not have
someone helping you with at least the
support work and AI I think will only
take you so far. So I I I think that's
true. Uh, and actually I think my view
on it is is is slightly different, which
is I think that your, you know, Lenny's
podcast might end up becoming a
billion-dollar startup. But um what I
think might happen is uh instead of you
kind of being the one person who has to
dispatch an AI to solve and fix those
support tickets, I think what might end
up happening is there might be a whole
smattering of other startups that are
building software and super and like
super tailored towards what you might
need. And so, you know, uh there might
be like 10 or 20 startups that build
support software for podcasts and
newsletters and uh that might be a
oneperson startup. Like it doesn't need
to be a big one. And uh it's it's and
you know they might be able to just code
up this product very very easily. They
are able to kind of like build their own
thing and because it's so tailored and
unique and hopefully you know useful for
you. It might be something that you
purchase um as the one person billion
dollar startup.
>> I would buy that. I would buy that.
>> Yeah. there's like a question of like
what you in-house and what you what you
like kind of uh outsource and what I
think might happen is because the cost
of writing software and building
products is is is is collapsing so much
you might end up outsourcing a lot of
this and in doing so reducing the size
of your company uh and so that's kind of
the world that I think might end up
happening again there's like high
uncertainty in what might play out here
but the end result still might be a one
like one person driving this like high
high massive leveraged company that
might actually reach a billion dollars
>> I could see that I also think about
Peter at Clawbots/ /moldbot/openclaw
of just like how barrageed he is right
now by all these asks and emails and
pings and DMs and PRs just like I'm
curious to and he's not even making any
money off this thing.
>> Um
>> yeah, I can't imagine what it's like to
be him right now. It's must be like
absolutely insane. It it's probably like
um uh you know like the the months after
we launched Hatchvt the craziness that
was
>> as one as one man.
>> Uh he's coming out on the pod by the way
in in a week.
>> Oh, that's exciting. Yeah. Uh maybe the
fourth order effect is distribution
becomes increasingly important because
there are so many freaking things trying
to get your attention. So people with an
audience and platform I think become
more and more valuable which is good
good stuff. Okay. Uh I wanted to come
back actually to your management stuff.
So I really loved your insight about
spending more time with top performers
has been really successful to you. Just
thinking about you as a manager of a
team that is building the platform that
powers basically the entire AI economy
like every AI startup is building on
your API. Uh clearly you're doing a
great job. What other kind of core
management lessons have you learned?
What do you find is really important and
and and key to your success as a manager
of engineers and just people?
>> Yeah. Um, I I think a lot of the lessons
that I've learned here, I don't know how
specific it is to the OpenA API or or
some of our enterprise products in
particular. I think my my management
philosophy has obviously changed over
time, but I think it it's uh probably
stayed the same more than it's changed
uh over time. Uh, one of these
principles is is kind of what I talked
to you about before, which is, you know,
spending a lot of time with with top
performers, like actually spending and
like to be very concrete, like it's like
more than 50% of your time with your top
performers with maybe your top like 10%
uh performers and really really trying
your best to empower them. The way that
I think about it is um is is is kind of
come back to this analogy of software
engineer as as as a surgeon um which
comes from the the mythical man book.
So, it's actually it's funny. So I I
pull it from the book, but in the book
they actually described this world where
um I think they were like predicting the
future cuz cuz I think the book was
written like in the 70s or something. Um
they said that software engineering
might end up moving into a world where
that software engineers are like
surgeons or like in a surgery room
there's like one person doing the work.
Um and you know there's one person like
cutting or whatever and like doing all
the surgery and everyone else in the
room is there to just support them,
right? as like the nurse and like the
and the resident and the fellow and then
the surgeon's like I need a scalpel and
they give them scalpel and then uh
they're like I need you know this tool
and this machine and they'll bring it
over. Everyone's there to just like you
know support the one uh surgeon and so
the the the myth mammoth actually
predicted that that is kind of the
direction that software engineers going
to go. I don't think that's exactly
played out where like you know it's much
more collaborative and like it's not
only one person doing the work but I've
always really liked that analogy and and
and and uh that analogy is actually what
I strive to uh uh kind of like emulate
in my own management philosophy which is
um software engineering isn't really
like surgery where it's not just one
person doing work but the way in which I
like treating the people on my team and
the way that I act as a manager is I
want to uh empower them make them feel
like they're a surgeon um and in in so
far at like as like making sure that I'm
supporting them and making sure they
have everything that they need to to do
their work and it feels like they have
an army of people kind of supporting
them um and looking around corners and
giving them everything that they need
when it's really just me as the as the
manager. And so like the example that I
give is is looking around corners and
unblocking people especially from an
organizational perspective is extremely
extremely useful. And again going back
to the AI conversations even more
important nowadays right like uh if if
people are just like cranking PR after
PR the main thing bottlenecking uh
progress and and you know shipping
something tends to be organizational or
like processoriented and if you as a
manager can kind of look around corners
and kind of unblock the team if you can
you know like if if the surgeon needs
scalpel but you know the manager kind of
already has a scalpel ready for them
that that's the best case scenario.
That's kind of the the way that I
approach uh u um management and and
especially uh engineering management.
And so that's something that that's
really really um stuck with me over
time. And even though you know software
engineers aren't exactly surgeons, that
metaphor has always kind of stayed in my
mind as of as of uh uh for the rest of
my career.
>> I love that. And I I feel like I wonder
if that's something AI can help with is
look around corners and predict here
this engineer is going to be blocked by
this decision. We need to figure this
out. We need to get
>> Yeah, that's actually a really good uh
point. I haven't tried this yet, but I
wonder what would happen if I ask uh
Chad GBT hooked up to company knowledge,
you know, like what are the active
blockers? Uh look through all the notion
docs, what are maybe Slack messages, you
know, it's probably in Slack somewhere.
What are the active blockers on my team
and is there something I can do to to
help? Um now very I have not thought
about that, but you're right.
>> You just had an insight right here.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Uh and it's I think even more
interestingly, what do you anticipate
will be a blocker for this engineer or
this team in the in the coming months or
>> Yeah. You asked the you asked the model.
Well, you asked the AI to do the second
and third order things. Anticipate that,
man. Anticipate what the bloggers will
be next month, too. Uh,
>> I think we've got a we've got a good
idea right here.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> This episode is brought to you by Data
Dog, now home to EPO, the leading
experimentation and feature flagging
platform. Product managers at the
world's best companies use Data Dog, the
same platform their engineers rely on
every day to connect product insights to
product issues like bugs, UX friction,
and business impact. It starts with
product analytics where PMs can watch
replays, review funnels, dive into
retention, and explore their growth
metrics. Where other tools stop, data
dog goes even further. It helps you
actually diagnose the impact of funnel
drop offs and bugs and UX friction. Once
you know where to focus, experiments
prove what works. I saw this firsthand
when I was at Airbnb, where our
experimentation platform was critical
for analyzing what worked and where
things went wrong. And the same team
that built experimentation at Airbnb
built EPO beta do then lets you go
beyond the numbers with session replay.
Watch exactly how users interact with
heat maps and scroll maps to truly
understand their behavior. And all of
this is powered by feature flags that
are tied to realtime data so that you
can roll out safely, target precisely,
and learn continuously. Data Dog is more
than engineering metrics. It's where
great product teams learn faster, fix
smarter, and ship with confidence.
Request a demo at dataq.com/lenny.
That's data dogq.com/lenny.
Okay, I'm going to shift to talking
about the API and the platform that you
all build. Some So, you work with a lot
of companies implementing your API, your
platform, building on on your on your
tools. You told me that you find that a
lot of companies actually have negative
ROI on their AI deployments, which uh I
think is what a lot of people read about
and feel and think and it's interesting
you're actually seeing that. What what's
going on there? What are they doing
wrong? What do you what what's happening
in the world of AI and deployments in
ROI?
>> Yeah. So, so to be clear, I I I don't
like explicitly see quantitative numbers
around this. uh you know uh it's
actually really hard to measure these
things but especially from observing
some companies kind of trying to do AI I
would not be surprised if a lot of AI
deployments are actually you know
negative ROI. I mean part of this too is
I think there's also general sentiment
um from uh folks uh around the country u
like basically outside of tech that AI
is being forced onto them. Um, and I
think part of this is is is uh uh uh
probably a symptom of some negative ROI
uh AI deployments. A couple things I've
observed around this. So one one thing
is and I think I I come back to this
again and again like I think we in
Silicon Valley just forget that we live
in a bubble. Like we are so like Twitter
is a bubble sorry X is a bubble. Um
Silicon Valley is a bubble. Software
engineering is a bubble. most people uh
in the world, most people in the US are
not software engineers, are not very AI
pled um are not following every single
model release. And so uh uh and so we're
just like highly out of the loop on how
to use this technology and so you know
like we um we always talk about all
these like best practices for codecs,
all these like codeex build people
within OpenAI. I'm sure everyone on X
who posts are like crazy power users of
of these AI tools, you know, they they
lean into skills, they lean into
agents.mmd,
>> MCPS.
>> Uh yes. Yeah. All all of that. And uh
when I talk to some of these companies
and I and I talk to the the actual
employees using these, it's like the
most basic thing that they're trying to
do and they like have very little
understanding of exactly how this
technology works. And so that that's
that's kind of like one big observation
for me, which is like they're asking
very simple questions of these things.
They're really not not pushing it just
yet. And so that kind of goes back to
that kind of ties into to to what I what
I think um more companies do or like
what could do or or what what a more
ideal AI deployment setup looks like. Um
and and this is kind of how we've run
things within OpenAI too. Um the
companies where I think it's it started
to work really well have a combination
of both top down buyin. So it's like the
seuite it's like you know we're we're we
want to become an AI AI first company.
So there's buyin, they buy the tools,
they have, you know, exact support, but
it also has bottoms up adoption and
buyin. And so what I mean by that is it
has like actual employees doing the work
who are really excited about the
technology and are willing to learn,
evangelize, build best practices and
kind of like knowledge share within the
organization. We've we've seen this a
lot internally. So like obviously OpenAI
has always wanted to be uh a very
AIcentric company but where when it
really started taking off was when was
with the introduction of codecs and
these tools where like people like
actual employees themselves could start
applying it to their work. Uh and I
think you really need this because at
the end of the day everyone's work is
like very different. It's like very
unique. Uh software engineering is
different than finance is different than
operations different than go to market
and sales. Uh, and so there's like a lot
of these like last mile intricacies of
work that needs to really be done in a
bottoms up fashion. And so my sense is a
lot of these these AI deployments don't
have like don't have bottoms up
adoption. Like it was like an exact
mandate and it's extremely top down and
is very divorced from what the actual
work looks like. And as an end result,
you end up with a giant workforce that
doesn't really understand the
technology. is like, I know I'm supposed
to use this and maybe it's like on my
performance review too, but um I'm not
sure what to do. And they look around,
no one else is doing it. There's no one
else to learn from. Uh and so my my you
know my recommendation for companies
kind of pushing this is is find or maybe
even staff a full-time team internally
that is this kind of tiger team
internally that can um explore the full
extent of the capabilities apply to
specific workflows do the knowledge
sharing uh create excitement uh within
folks uh who might want to use this
technology uh because in the absence of
that it's very difficult to it's
actually very difficult to pick up
>> and who who would you put on this tiger
team is it like engineerled do you find
in your experience is it cross
functional sort of team.
>> Yeah, it's it's interesting. So, um also
a lot of companies don't have software
engineers. Uh and so the the pattern
I've seen is it tends to be these like
software engineering adjacent like
basically technical people but are not
software engineers. I think those are
the ones who get tend to get most
excited uh around this. It's like, you
know, maybe the It's like maybe the
like, you know, support team operations
lead who doesn't code but loves using
these tools and, you know, is like an
Excel wizard or something. And so it's
like technical adjacent or like coding
adjacent and like, you know, pretty
technical. Those are the times like
those are the kinds of people I've seen
in these companies who just like really
light up and get excited around this.
Um, and you can usually build a team uh
a team around that. But yeah, it's like
oftentimes not software engineers.
Software engineers, I think, will
understand this, but not every company
has has software engineers. Um, is
actually kind of a rarity. They're
they're hard to find. They're expensive.
Uh, and so it's it's these other other
types of folks. What I'm hearing is the
anti- pattern is top down. This is very
the CEO found exec team just like we are
going to go AI first. We're going to
lead into AI. Everyone's going to be
judged on their performance using AI
tools, how much your productivity is
increasing thanks to AI. And without
with that being just top down and not
creating a team that is bottom up
spreading the the gospel, you find it
doesn't work.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly.
>> And the advice is find the people that
are most excited and instead of kind of
having them spread out through the
organization, you're what you find works
is create a little AI kind of evangelist
team that finds ways to use it and kind
of spreads it across the work.
>> Yeah. I mean another it's kind of like
hearing you you play back to me. Another
way to think about it, kind of tying
back to my own management philosophies,
is find the high performers in AI
adoption and empower them. You know, let
them build hackathons, let them, you
know, hold seminars, do knowledge
sharing, kind of create the seeds of uh
of excitement internally. Okay. Amazing.
There's a couple hot takes I want to
hear uh from you. Something that I've
seen you talk about and share. one is um
you've shared that talking to customers
and listening to customers is not always
the right strategy in AI and it might
often lead you astray.
>> I don't know if it's that hot of a take.
I think the main thing here is so
obviously you should talk to your
customers like it's it's like useful to
talk to customers. I just think the AI
field um especially what I've seen over
the last kind of like three years um uh
working on the API and and seeing kind
of all that evolve is the field and the
models themselves are just changing so
so quickly they tend to like disrupt
themselves especially around the like
tooling and the scaffolding space. So uh
there there's this quote that I read
actually earlier this week from a it's
from an ex article uh by this guy named
Nicholas who's who's the founder of a a
startup called finol uh where uh I think
he was he was sharing a lot of the best
practices that he has learned through
building AI agents for financial
services I think at a at a startup
FinTool um and he had this phrase that I
thought was really good which is uh the
models will eat your scaffolding for
breakfast. Like if you look if you
rewind back to 2022 right when Chad GBT
launched um these models were pretty raw
and there was like all this product
scaffolding and and things especially in
the developer space to basically try and
steer the model and build a scaffolding
around it to get it to do what you want
like agent frameworks there's like like
vector stores I think was like really
popular back then uh and just like a
whole smattering of tools here and as
you've kind of seen the field play out
that the models have just changed so
much uh that uh and and gotten so much
better that they ended up yeah literally
eating some of some of the scaffolding.
Um and I think this is even true today.
So I think the the article from Nicholas
um actually you know the the current
scaffolding which is uh fashionable is
skills files based context management. I
could see a world where at some point
you know that's no longer useful uh
where the model can actually you know
manage all that themselves or like you
know uh uh or or or there might be you
know it's hard to predict but like might
move on to some new paradigm where you
know need this file based like skills
skills type thing you have literally
seen this play out right like the agent
frameworks I think are a little less
useful now um there was a period of time
like 2023 where we thought vector stores
and is is going to be like the main way
for you to you know bring organizational
context into the models and you need to
you know uh vector and embed every bit
of your corpuses and then you need to do
all this work to like figure out the
vector search to like optimize that to
fill out the right information the right
time. All of that is scaffolding because
the model you know was not good enough
and turns out you know in this case it
turns out as the models get better a
better approach is actually to take out
a lot of that logic and trust the model
and give it a set of tools for search.
It doesn't need to be a vector store.
You could actually just hook it up to
any type of search. It could literally
be files on a file system like skills uh
and agents MD uh to kind of steer it uh
as well. Obviously, there's still a
place for vector stores. I know a lot of
companies are still using it, but the
that the entire scaffolding around that
and building an entire ecosystem around
that and assuming that's the only
scaffolding that you need has has really
changed. And so tying this back to like
you know uh it's you know you don't
always have to listen to your customers
because the field is changing so much at
any point in time you know a lot of
people are kind of in this local local
maximum and if you just blindly listen
to your customers they'll be like yeah I
want a better vector store like I want a
better uh I want a better you know agent
framework for this and uh if you had
just kind of only chased down that path
it actually would have led you to you
know build something that again is the
local maxima whereas as the models get
better we've had to reinvent event and
kind of rethink the right right uh uh
abstractions and the right tools and
frameworks to to to to build around
these models. Um and the cool slash
exciting slash kind of crazy annoying
part is it's a moving target. And so
yeah, like the current current
smattering of of tools and frameworks
right now will likely need to evolve and
change pretty significantly over time um
as the models get smarter and better.
But that is just the nature of building
in the space. I think that's what makes
it exciting. Uh but it also means when
you talk to customers, you kind of need
to balance the exact feedback that they
want uh with uh where you think the
models are going and where you think
things will uh trend over the next one
to two years. It's interesting how this
is um the bitter lesson is uh you know
this big lesson that AI and ML folks
learned which is just like uh don't the
less you over complicate the less logic
you add to to machine learning to AI the
more it'll be able to scale and grow and
just like take it all away and let it
just just compute basically just give it
more power to to get smarter on its own.
Yeah, there's literally a version of the
bitter lesson applied to like building
with AI where you know we were trying to
architect all this stuff around and
turns out the models are just kind of
you know eat it all away and and and and
honestly like OpenAI API team has like
been guilty of this uh where we kind of
like took some you know left and right
turns when we shouldn't have um but uh
yeah the models still end up models get
better and uh we're all learning the
bitter lesson day in and day out. So
what would be the the key takeaway for
folks building on say the API or just
building agents and you know having to
build a little bit of this around for
now is it just yeah what would be the
advice?
>> My general advice and I've been giving
this to people for a while and I think
still true today is make sure you're
building for where the models are going
and not where they are today. um uh you
know the the it's it's clearly a moving
target and I think a lot of the
companies that I've seen startups that
I've seen really really do well is they
build a product for an ideal like type
of capability that is like maybe 80% of
the way there today and it like they end
up you know having a product that like
kind of works but it's like just almost
there but then as the models get better
you know suddenly it might click and
then their product now is incredible
because it works you like uh uh like
maybe with like 03 at some point it
suddenly works with 5.1 5.2 suddenly it
unlocks it but they're building these
products with the like the model
capability improvements in mind and with
that you end up creating an exper
experience that's way better than if you
had assumed that it's it's static in the
first place. Um and so that would be my
my general uh advice which is you know
build for where where where the models
are going and not not where they are
today. You end up building a better
product. you may need to, you know, like
wait a little bit, but like, you know,
the models are getting so much better so
quickly, you often don't need to wait um
that long.
>> So to follow that thread, where are like
in the next six to 12 months, where is
the API heading? Where's the platform
heading? Where are the models heading?
As much as you can share, I know there's
a lot of secrets here that maybe you're
most excited about or do you think that
people should start to prepare for and
however much you can share?
>> I mean, so the obvious one is um how
long of a task uh these models can do
coherently. Um, so there's like the the
meter benchmark that that I think tracks
software engineering tasks and how long,
you know, like how long of a task can
these models do uh 50% of the time, 80%
of the time. Uh, I think we're at
something like multi-hour tasks being
able to be done by uh software
engineering tasks being able to be done
by um uh these frontier models uh 50% of
the time and then I think 80% is
something like just under an hour. But
the the the sobering thing about that
that chart is they plot all the uh
previous models on this chart as well.
So you can really see the trend of this.
That's something that I'm really excited
about which is you know I actually think
products today really optimize for tasks
that the model can do for like minutes
at a time. Like even codecs and like the
coding tools I'd say like you know it's
in the Cly you're kind of like seeing it
be interactive. It's really you know
quite optimized well for like maybe at
most 10-minute types. I have seen people
push codeex to the limit and do like
multi-hour long uh tasks. Uh but again I
I think that that's more of the
exception. But I uh if you follow this
trend like I think like in the next 12
to 18 months we could see models that
could do multi-hour long tasks very very
coherently. At some point it might reach
like you know 6 hours a dayong task
where you kind of like dispatch it and
have it do you know do things on uh on
its own for a while. The types of
products you build around that will look
very different. you want to give the
model feedback. You obviously don't want
it to completely run wild for a day.
Maybe you do, but but you probably
don't. Um and and then the the universe
of things you can have the model do
really expand. So that's something that
I'm really um really excited about
seeing. Another uh thing over the next
12 to 18 months I think be really cool
is improvements in our in the multimodal
models. So uh and and actually by by
multimodality I'm mostly thinking about
audio here where uh the models are
pretty good at audio. I think they're
going to get a lot better um at audio
over the next 6 to 12 months especially
the like you know the um native
multimodal models the speech to speech
ones I think there's also interesting
work uh being done around um new types
of models and architectures on the
multimodal audio side uh as well but uh
audio especially in the enterprise and
in a business setting I think is a
hugely underrated uh domain still like
everyone talks about coding it's all
text uh but uh we're talking in audio
A lot of the world's business is done
via audio. Uh a lot of services and
operations are done via uh talking and
audio. And so uh I think that that area
is going to look very exciting in the
next 12 to 18 months. And I think there
will be uh even more unlock for uh what
we can do uh with with audio models uh
there as well.
>> Amazing. So quick summary uh expect
agents and uh AI tools to run longer to
that that trajectory to continue to
increase and then audio and speech
becoming a bigger deal more first party
and and native and better and core to
the experience.
>> Yeah,
>> extremely cool. Okay, I want to go back
to one of your hot takes, another hot
take that I've seen you discuss. You're
big uh you're very bullish on business
process automation as an opportunity in
the world of AI. Talk about that. Yeah,
this go this goes back to the thing that
I said previously which is um we we we
live in a bubble in Silicon Valley and
um a lot of the work that we do that
we're used to software engineering you
know product management building
products uh is very differently shaped
than the work that goes on um that runs
our entire economy and I see this in and
out when I talk to customers uh if you
if you talk to any like you know company
that's not based in it's not a tech
company um there's a lot of business
processes. And so what what I mean by
this is is you know I generally
delineate it as you know there's like uh
like software engineering is kind of
like open-ended knowledge work right
it's and this is why I think tools like
codeex tend to be quite quite good
because it's exploring and and you're
giving it these like open-ended things
but software engineering is
fundamentally like pretty open-ended uh
and it's not very repeatable right so
like you build a feature you're not
trying to build the exact same feature
over and over again and a lot of like
tech jobs are in the space I think like
data science is kind of in the space as
well. Even some of the like strategic
finance stuff. But as you move further
and further away from software
engineering and like what what is core
in tech, a lot of jobs are just business
processes. They're like repeatable
things uh repeatable operations um that
you know some manager at a company has
kind of like iterated on. Um there's
usually a standard operating procedure
that people want to do. Uh and you don't
want to deviate from it that much. you
know this like in software engineering
the ingenuity is isn't isn't deviating
but a lot of a lot of the the the work
being done in the world is actually just
um running through these procedures and
operations like if I you know if I call
um a support line they're running
through one of these if I call my
utility company there's a bunch of
processes and things that they can and
cannot do um for me uh and so I'm I'm
just extremely bullish on this general
category of like and and and I think
it's underrated because it's so
different from what we think about in
Silicon Valley people tend to not think
about it. But how can we apply um AI uh
and and some of the tools and frameworks
that we have towards this business
process automation towards automated
automating and making easier um
repeatable business processes with high
determinism um that is fully integrated
with business uh data and business
decisions and and and different systems
within an enterprise um and how can we
actually make that that process better
uh because I actually think there's a
lot of opportunity and a lot of work to
be done uh in that area and we just we
just don't talk about it because it's
it's a little bit less uh uh in our
wheelhouse. So your take here just to
make sure I fully understand it is you
think there's a much uh bigger
opportunity outside of engineering for
AI to impact uh productivity of
companies and also jobs of these folks
that are doing these kind of repetitive
easily automated tasks impact jobs and
also just impact how work is done like
so much of work is done in this way like
you think about you know like what a
basically we I I talk to customers all
the time big enterprises like like how
how will AI transform my company like
how will it run in in in a world uh with
AI in like 20 years. Um and and you
know, software engineering is part of
the story, but there's so much more on
the business process side. And I
actually think it might look even more
different on the business process side.
And and the work there is is pretty
substantial. It's actually interesting.
I don't know like from an absolute
percentage or absolute basis, I don't
know if it's bigger or smaller than
software engineering. Like software is
pretty huge and pretty extensive uh as
well. But it is pretty massive and it's
definitely bigger than you know uh uh uh
it's bigger than you would think it is
based off of how how people talk about
it or don't talk about it on X or
Twitter. Okay. Uh going in a slightly
different direction uh having built the
platform building the API uh people
building on the API the biggest question
on people's minds is always just uh how
do I not have OpenAI squash my idea and
build their own thing and then you know
destroy this this market I created.
What's the general policy? What's the
general philosophy of how startups
should think about where open AI is
unlikely to go? My my general answer
here is is um the market is so big and
so massive like I actually think you
know startups should just not overly
think about where open AI or these labs
are going. I've talked to a lot of
startups you know that have you know not
worked out, startups that are doing
really well. Every startup that I've
seen that has kind of fizzled out is not
because open AI or you know big lab or
Google or something has has come to
squash them. It's because they built
something and it like really didn't
resonate with with the customers.
Whereas the ones that take off like even
in very competitive spaces like coding
like cursor is huge at this point and
it's because they built something that
people really love. And so my general
advice is like don't you know don't
overly stress about this. Just build
something that people like and you will
you will have a space in this. I can't
overstate how big of an opportunity
there is right now. Like the the the
opportunity space of building with AI is
so big. Like a good example of this is
is like the space is so big that the
overton window of what is acceptable and
not acceptable for VCs to do has
completely changed here. VCs are like
investing in like competitive companies
left and right is just like the space is
so big because the opportunity is is is
is unlike anything that we've seen
before. And while you know uh that that
affects how VCs operate from a startup
perspective it's like the most
empowering thing in the world because
the like even if you just build
something that that some people really
really love you will you will end up
with a massive massively valuable
business. Uh and so I that's why I tell
people like don't don't overthink about
it. The other thing like I also think is
important to remember uh at least from
an open AI perspective. One thing that
that that we've always held very near
and dear which both Sam and Greg helped
you know reinforce from the top as well
is we actually view ourselves
fundamentally as a like ecosystem
platform company. The API was our first
product. We think it's really important
for us to foster this ecosystem and
continue to you know uh support it and
and not squash it. And so if you kind of
look at the decisions we make it this is
all we've weave through it. Every single
model we've released in one of our
products gets released in the API. Like
even, you know, we release these codeex
models now that are a little bit more
optimized for the Codex harness, but
they always find their way into the API
and like all of our, you know, uh,
customers end up using those. We don't
hold back on any of that. Uh, we think
it's really important to keep our
platform neutral and so, you know, we
don't block competitors. Um, we allow
people to have access to our models. Um
uh we also want you know like uh we've
recently been testing more of like the
signin with chatgbt you know uh product
as well and so we we want to foster this
ecosystem and I think it's really
important that we do so. Uh the general
like thinking about this is like you
know a rising tide like lifts all boats
and you know we might be a aircraft
carrier we're like pretty big at this
point but we think it's important to
raise the tide uh because everyone kind
of uh benefits and I think we'll benefit
as well like our API itself has grown
pretty significantly because we we act
in this way and so I'd really encourage
people not to view OpenAI as this kind
of like you know thing that'll just uh
uh shove people out of the way but
instead focus on on on building
something valuable and we you know
remain committed to to to providing an
open ecosystem.
>> Why why is that important to open AAI?
Just this focus on building a platform,
creating a way for people to build
businesses just like is that just that's
been the vision from the beginning. We
want this to be a a platform. It's been
the vision from the beginning. It comes
goes back to our charter actually like
our our mission. Um so the the open air
mission has always been to one to build
AGI. So you know we're obviously doing
that but then the second thing is to
like spread the benefits of it to all of
humanity and there's kind of like a lot
of you know uh uh the main part there is
all of humanity like uh and obviously
Chad GBD is trying to do this you know
we're trying to reach however many you
know the whole world but very early on
and this is why we we launched the API
you know back in I think it was like
2020 or something like really early we
don't think we as a company will be able
to reach all of humanity right like
there's I don't know every every corner
of the world is like like pretty pretty
pretty pretty deep. And so we actually
feel like in order for us to fulfill our
mission, we need to have some platform
style thing here where we can empower
other people to build, you know, the
customer support bot for podcasters and
newsletter hosts. Uh because we're not
going to be able to do it ourselves. Uh
and so we've largely seen this play out
with the API. Uh this is why we we you
know, we we we we talked to so many of
our customers and and and really, you
know, love seeing the diversity of of
things built on. But yeah, it it's been
there since day one because it's it's
kind of we view it as an expression of
our mission.
>> And you haven't even mentioned the uh
the app store that you guys are
launching the chatbt app store.
>> Yeah. Is is that under your umbrella by
the way or is that a different Oregon
team?
>> It's a it's a different team. So it's
under chatbt. We obviously collaborate
very closely with them and uh you know
they built like an apps SDK uh which is
built in close collaboration with our
team. Uh but that is more within the
chat GBT umbrella. Uh but that is also
another like that's another example of
this right. It's like Chad GBT is like
we we we we we kind of like have these
800 million weekly active users who are
just coming over and over again. Like
it's a great asset to have as a
business, but like man would it be
better if we could somehow allow, you
know, uh other companies to come in and
and and and uh take advantage of this as
well and and build for this this
audience as well. And and then
ultimately we think it'll help us expand
that that that group as well, right? And
so it's all it all kind of comes back to
the mission and uh we find that being a
platform being open tends to help here.
Just that number 800 million I think
it's ma
just like weekly weekly
>> weekly act billion people using weekly
just like it's absurd how many how these
numbers we're just used to now but
that's in insane unprecedented
>> yeah it's it's mindboggling for me to
think about from a scale perspective uh
honestly and the way I think about it is
like 10% of the world uh and growing by
the way like it's just it's it's
shooting up um
>> uh come to chat GPT uh um and and use it
every day or sorry every week.
>> And this point I just want to double
down on this point you're making. Open
AAI's mission was to make AI available
to all humanity. And I think some people
diss that. They're like, oh, you know,
it costs money and it's like uh like the
fact that it it's there's a free version
of chat GPT that anybody can use that is
not so different from the most powerful
AI model that exists in the world for
free that's not gated that anyone could
use. It's like if you have if you're a
billionaire, there's only so much more
you can get out of AI than what someone
you know in a village in Africa can can
get. And I know that's always been
really important to open AI.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean like uh that that's
why I think we've leaned into the health
work. We leaned into like like uh
education is going to be a very
interesting here. Um the other in insane
kind of trend here is is the free model
has gotten so smart over time. like the
free model back in 2022 was, you know,
like uh was good at the time, but it's
like nothing compared to what you get
today because you get 2 GB 5 today. Uh
and so the like, you know, raising the
floor across the world is kind of, you
know, something that we're really we're
trying to do and and we view it as as
part of our mission. The other flip side
of this, by the way, is like, you know,
kind of talking about like the
billionaires or whatever. I know people
have saying like you're using the same
iPhone that like you know Steve or sorry
like Mark Zuckerberg's probably using or
like the billionaires are using but for
like $20 a month you're basically using
you know like using the same AI that you
know the billionaires are using. Uh for
like $200 a month uh you get the same
pro model that you know all the
billionaires are using but they're
probably not using pro for everything.
They're probably just using the the plus
tier ones uh for their day in and day
out. And so yeah, this kind of like
democratization and just like spreading
of this this benefit like across all of
the world is something that's really
meaningful to us and something that um
uh drives a lot of of of what we do. One
last question just for folks that are
thinking about building on the API or
just like oh wait I could do cool stuff
with open models and APIs. What what
does your API and and platform allow
people to do? Like I know you can build
agents on top of the platform. Just talk
about what you allow. So fundamentally
the API offers a bunch of developer
endpoints uh and and uh and these
developer endpoints basically let you
sample from our models. The most popular
one that we have right now is one called
responses API. Uh and so this is an
endpoint and it's optimized for building
longunning agents. So agents that'll
work for a while. So what you can
basically you can at a very you know uh
uh low level you're basically just
giving the model text. The model will
work for a while. you can kind of, you
know, pull it to see see what it'll do
and then you'll get the model response
back at at some point. That's like the
lowest level primitive that we have uh
for people and that's actually what a
lot of people use. That's the most
popular way of building on top of API
with that. It is like super
unpopinionated and you can do basically
whatever you want. It's like the lowest
level thing. We've also started building
more and more kind of like layers of
abstraction on top to help people build
uh some of these. Uh and so next layer
up we have this thing called the agents
SDK which has also gotten extremely
extremely popular. Um this allows you to
use you know the responses API or some
other API endpoints that we have to
build what you might more traditionally
think of as an agent like a you know an
AI kind of working in an infinite loop.
It might have sub agents that it
delegates to. It starts building all
this framework all this scaffolding
actually. You know we'll see where this
all goes. Um, but it makes it a lot
easier for you to build these these
these these kind of agents, giving it
guard rails, allowing it to like farm
out subtasks to other agents and and
kind of like orchestrate a swarm of
agents. Uh, the agents SDK uh kind of
allows you to do that. And then above
that, uh, we've now started building
tools to help also with kind of like the
meta level of deploying an agent. Uh so
we have this product called uh um agent
kit uh uh uh and widgets uh which are
basically a bunch of UI components that
you can use to very easily um build a
very beautiful UI um on top of uh uh
either our API or agents SDK um because
you know a lot of times these agents
kind of look very similar from a UI
perspective uh and so there's agent kit
we also have a smattering of like uh
eval products like an eval API where if
you want to test and like you know see
if your models or your your agent or
your workflow was working. Uh you can
test it in a very quantitative way um
using our EDOLs product. And so yeah,
that I I view it as like these these
various layers. They're all kind of
helping you build um what you want um
with our AI uh with our models um and
with increasing levels of abstraction
and and and and uh you know how
opinionated it is. And so um you can
start you can do you can use the whole
stack and and it it very quickly allows
you to build an agent or you can go down
down the stack as low as you want to
basically responses API and build
whatever you want uh because of how low
level it is.
>> Sherwin, is there anything else that you
want to share? Anything else you want to
leave listeners with? Anything we
haven't touched on that you think might
be helpful before we get to our very
exciting lightning round? The only thing
I' I'd leave folks with is yeah, I think
um I think the next like two to three
years are going to be some of the most
fun uh in tech and in the startup world
uh that that we'll have in a very long
time. And uh I would just encourage
people to not uh not take it for
granted. Like I I entered the workforce
in 2014. It was great for like a couple
years. I felt like there was like a
period of like five to six years where
it wasn't very exciting in tech. Uh and
then in the last three years has just
been the most insanely exciting
energizing period uh of my career and I
think the next two to three years are
gonna be a continuation of that. And so
uh would encourage people not take it
for granted. I'm trying to not take it
for granted. At some point you know this
wave is going to play out and it's going
to be a lot more you know incremental.
Uh but in the meantime we're going to
get to explore a lot of really cool
things, invent a lot of new things and
change the world and change how we work.
And so uh that's the main thing I' I'd
leave folks with. I love this message. I
want to spend a little more time on it.
Um, when you say don't miss it, is it
what do you recommend people do? Is it
just build, lean in, learn, join a
company building really interesting
things? Like what's what's your advice
to folks that are like, "Okay, I don't
want to miss the boat." Yeah, I would
just say engage with it. So, it's
basically like what you said. Um, lean
in. Um, building, uh, tools on top of
this is is part of the, you know, it's
part of the story. Um, just using the
tools like you don't, you know, you
don't need to be a software engineer to
to lean into this. Um, all I think a lot
of jobs are going to going to going to
change here. So just using the tools,
understanding the limitations of what it
can and cannot do so that you can kind
of watch the trend of what it can start
to do um as the models improve and yeah
and so it's basically like getting used
and getting getting used to the
technology and getting familiar with it
instead of kind of like laying back and
uh uh uh letting it letting it pass you.
>> On the flip side of that, there's a lot
of I think stress and just anxiety
around like there's so much happening.
How do I keep up? I got to learn
cloudbot this week. Oh god. What is
there something you've learned about it
just not like you're at the center of
this? How do you not get overly stressed
and worried about missing things that
are going on and just stay on top of
news? What what are some things you've
done learned?
>> Yeah, so I I think I'm personally a bad
example of this because I am I'm
basically chronically online uh on X and
uh our company Slack. So I I I actually
try and absorb I end up absorbing a lot
of it. What I will say though is just
like from observing other folks who are
less, you know, addicted to this stuff
like I am. Um, yeah, a lot of it is
noise. Like you don't need to you don't
need to have like 110% of this kind of
pass your mind like like go into your
mind. Honestly, just leaning into like
one or two different tools starting
small is already like you know more than
you need here. I think just the
combination of like the frenetic pace of
the industry X as a product just creates
like this insane kind of like um uh uh
like yeah this insane like pace of of
news which is honestly very
overwhelming. Uh the main thing is like
you don't need to be you don't need to
know all of that to to really engage
with what's happening right now and even
something as simple as just like install
the codeex client and play around with
it. install Chad GBHEN, connect it to a
couple of your uh you know internal uh
uh data sources, notion, slack, github,
and see what it can and cannot do. Um
all of that I think is a part of it.
Amazing. Sherwin, with that we've
reached our very exciting lightning
round. I've got five questions for you.
Are you ready?
>> Yeah. Yeah, absolutely.
>> First question, what are two or three
books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people?
>> Oh, I'll I'll talk about one non-fiction
one and one fiction book. Uh the fiction
book was I just finished reading it. I I
I it was really I I really recommend it.
It it's uh uh there is no anti-mimetics
division by Q&M. Uh it's a uh I think
it's like an online author, but I saw it
being shared on X. Uh this this uh it's
like a science fictiony kind of book. Um
and it was I basically devoured it in
like two days. Um it was it's super
super well written, super fascinating.
It's about a government agency that's
fighting, you know, things that make you
forget it. Um, and so it's just a very
like smart like creative book that that
and fresh uh honestly in terms of like
source material uh that that that I
really like. So I'd recommend that one.
Uh the book is also unintentionally
hilarious. So like it's like meant to be
like this like sci-fi almost like horror
style book, but it was it was it was uh
it made me laugh a couple times. So uh
that's the that's the um fiction book
non-fiction. So I'm going to cheat and
I'm going to recommend two of them. So
in the last year I've been reading a lot
more about China and kind of like the US
China relations. And I think there are
two books that came out in the last year
that have been you know really really
eye opening for me in in that regard.
First one is the Dan Wang book
breakneck. That one was really really
good. I really liked his analogy of like
the lawyerly US is the lawyerly society.
China is the engineering society uh and
their pros and cons to each. I read it
and I was like hm yeah does does seem
like we're run by lawyers uh in the US.
So that's one. Uh and the other one is
the Patrick McGee book on Apple and
China was super super interesting. I'm a
huge Apple fanboy. Like if you could see
my uh desk right now, it's it's all
Apple stuff. But just like one, it was
just super fascinating learning about
Apple's relationship to China. And then
two, it just like had a lot of inside
information about Apple as a company
that I found fascinating. So it was also
quite a page turner and um also, you
know, very very timely a timely book as
well.
>> The antiimetics book sounds amazing. I'm
buying it right now as you're talking.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's like I think
it's only like couple hundred pages. I
literally finished in two days. It was
just like so so good.
>> Okay, great tip. Okay. Uh favorite
recent movie or TV show you have really
enjoyed?
>> Yeah, that one's tough cuz you know with
I I have two kids and uh uh a busy job
and so I really haven't had much time um
to watch TV shows. Uh I will say in the
last couple weeks I watched a couple
episodes. I'm actually a big anime guy
and so uh I I watched a couple episodes.
There's a new season of this anime
called Jujutsu Kaisen uh that's out. Uh
so season 3 of JJK. uh was was was
really good. Um, in general, uh I'm a
huge uh fan of uh Japanese anime. I
think they create the most uh novel and
unique uh plots uh and universes that uh
western media has shied away from. Um
and so uh generally a big fan of that
but yeah it haven't really watched much
but saw a couple episodes of JJK
recently.
>> Extremely understandable in your role.
>> Yeah.
>> Favorite product you recently discovered
that you really love?
>> Yeah. Okay. So, so, uh, so I recently,
uh, had to set up Wi-Fi and like home
networking, and I went all in on
Ubiquiti, uh, routers, um, and C
security cameras. I had never heard of
it before. I had to do this. I always
just had a very simple setup. Uh, and it
is just such a well-built product. Uh, I
don't know if you used it before, but
it's basically like the Apple of like
home networking. So, uh, beautiful
products. Uh, but the thing that
actually makes it extremely good is it
software is good. Uh, and so they have a
really great um, mobile app to help
manage, you know, uh, all of the the
home networking. Um, and so basically
Ubiquity, you can use it to buy uh,
wireless routers. Um, you need Ethernet
uh, wiring throughout your house to use
it. Um, but I actually think what makes
it really good are security cameras. So,
if you have security cameras that are
plugged into the Ubiquiti ecosystem,
they have an incredible mobile app. Uh,
and Apple TV app and iPad app um to kind
of see the live feed of your cameras and
and so uh they're they're they're a
little pricey, but not that pricey. Uh
but it's been just an incredible product
experience.
>> All right, I went EO so I made a
mistake. Good tip.
>> EOS are pretty good, too. But, uh fully
converted to Ubiquity at this point.
>> Good tip. Okay, two more questions. Do
you have a favorite life motto that you
find yourself coming back to in work or
in life?
Yeah. Uh the one that I always, you
know, repeat to myself is, uh, uh, never
feel sorry for yourself. There's a lot
of things that are going to happen, you
know, uh, at work, uh, in life. Uh, and
reminding yourself to never feel sorry
and that you always have a sense of
agency to kind of pull yourselves up is
something that I've had to tell myself a
lot and, um, also something that I
repeat to to to to a lot of other folks
as well. Last question. So, in your
previous life, you worked at Open Door
where you led work on basically figuring
out how much to uh pay for houses. You
basically built a model that told the
company, "Here's how much we'll pay for
this house." What's like a variable in
the price of a house that you didn't
expect is really important and impacts
the price of a house? There's a bunch
that were surprising. I'll I'll maybe
list the the the the couple of mo most
uh uh interesting ones. um power lines
and like uh high voltage power lines
like are super super uh actually impact
your price quite a lot. I didn't really
fully internalize this until I went to
like Dallas and observe like when your
house sits next to one of these giant
like you know voltage lines is like
buzzing and most people have families
you don't want your kids kind of near
there. Uh so I think that was one that
really really uh kind of surprised me.
>> That makes sense.
>> Yeah. And then the other one which which
was something that uh was always
something really difficult for us to uh
quantify uh was floor plans. Uh and so
it is very important like yes of course
it's really important but just like
quantifying what a good floor plan is
like and what a really bad floor plan is
like we were doing all these things of
like how wide is the kitchen and like is
it a what style of kitchen is it and
then like where's the master bedroom and
and so it was just really really hard to
quantify but I remember floor plan was a
big one because like we'd have a home
that like wouldn't sell and then our uh
ops team would go in and be like yeah
it's a floor plan issue so like how do
you how could you tell it's like you go
inside you just feel it it feels you
know the floor plan feels
Uh so yeah, th those are ones that were
uh surprising. And then the last one
that was more impactful than I thought
is um general like curb appeal and like
even like the front door. Uh and so I
actually think there there's a Zillow
book on on this where the front door
replacement tends to be the highest ROI
uh for homes. Um but just like the feel
of like as you walk up to the home as a
buyer, what you're interacting with and
the first moments of the house, I think
was uh I'd underrated its importance.
That is extremely interesting. Uh, and I
love that you had to figure figure how
to do all this in code and not walk
floor plans. I have a bunch of stories
around like for floor plans there's like
there's like uh it's not digitized. So
there's like a handful of people who
have like paper floor plans uh of like
all these homes in like Phoenix and
Dallas. Um yeah, a lot lot of fun fun
stories from the open door days.
>> Okay, Sherwin, uh thank you so much for
doing this. This was incredible. Uh
where can folks find you online and uh
and how can listeners be useful to you?
Yeah. So, I'm uh online on on Twitter on
X. I'm just Sherwin Woo and uh yeah, I
mostly just tweet about uh OpenAI and
the API and some of the products that
we're launching. Uh and then how folks
can be uh can be useful to me. Uh I love
hearing about things that people are
building and so if you're working on a
startup, if you're hacking on an idea,
you know, would love to uh just reach
out to me on X. Um I would love to hear
about uh what you're building and and
learn about how open I can help support
you.
>> Amazing. Sherwin, thank you so much for
being here. Yeah. Thank you, Lenny.
>> Bye, everyone. Thank you so much for
listening. If you found this valuable,
you can subscribe to the show on Apple
Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite
podcast app. Also, please consider
giving us a rating or leaving a review
as that really helps other listeners
find the podcast. You can find all past
episodes or learn more about the show at
lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.